                  The Book of Mystic Wisdom
                as told by Philpop the Weary,
             magician to the, court of his most
                   sovereign Lord British.

     Know ye, O seeker of the mystic wisdoms, that the ways of
magic   are  diverse and strange.  There exists the  need  for
utmost  concentration and the harvesting of things magical  in
order  that  ye may harness  the powers of the universe.  Many
are  the eons of wisdom contained in these pages which I write
for  the  benefit  of my pupils, yet still there  is  much  to
learn.

    All magic is accomplished by the use of means both human and
of  nature,  for true magic, is but the melding of human  will
and  natural  force.   Without the human voice  to  utter  the
chant,  no  spell may be cast. Yet without the proper  natural
catalyst, no spell may be effective.  Thus magic is twofold, a
balance  struck  between nature and humanity. Let  us  examine
both  aspects  here, beginning with those natural  substances,
known  as  Reagents,  that lend power  to  the  words  of  the
spellcaster.

Sulphurous Ash: Sulphur is the substance found in nature that is
most  useful  in the generation of fire. It is  the  color  of
saffron and, when burned, gives off an odor indicative of  its
great  mystic strength.  Yet its true power is to be found  in
the  second burning - that is, in the use of the ashen residue
of  Sulphur that has been burned in a crucible fashioned  from
the  skull  of  a  Balron. Sulphurous Ash is not  an  uncommon
substance,  having  been  a staple of the  Wizards  profession
through  the  ages.  It may be purchased  from  any  reputable
purveyor  of  magical goods and is useful in  the  casting  of
Energy  Fields  and  Magic Missiles,  as  well  as  in  spells
requiring a quick burst of light or a sustained glow.

Ginseng:  Long  praised for its strength giving and  medicinal
properties,,  the  root of the Ginseng  plant  is  immediately
recognizable  for its forked shape, and to those initiated  in
the  mystic ways,, by its overpowering rose-colored aura.   It
has  been used for centuries by peasants who chew it  or  brew
tea  from a powdered preparation of the root in order to  gain
strength  and  stamina  as they toil  in  the  fields.   While
commonly  found throughout Britannia, the Ginseng  used  as  a
component in the casting of spells is generally black in color
and  found  only on the slopes of the northern mountains.   It
may  be  purchased  in virtually any shop that  sells  magical
goods,  and is most useful in spells of a healing or  narcotic
nature, such as Cure or Sleep enchantments.

Garlic: Even the most common of nature's gifts to our people have
magical properties as can be witnessed by the power of Garlic.
This  pungent  bulb is found in every garden in the  lands  of
Britannia, and no stew or roast would be complete without  its
sharp  flavor.  Its  aromatic nature makes Garlic  a  powerful
reagent  in the casting of magical spells, and it is  used  in
all spells of the warding variety - be they the warding off of
common  and  magical sickness or the repelling of beings  once
dead.

Spider  Silk: The miracle of Spider Silk lies in  its  tensile
strength.  Imagine,  if you will, a grown  man  relying  on  a
strand of catgut to hold his weight all the days of his  life.
A  spider relies on the finest of threads to do just that, and
its silk never fails it. We should praise the first wizardling
who  realized the mystic secret of Spider Silk, for it  is  to
him   or  her  that  we  owe  the  knowledge  of  binding  and
restraining spells. The silk of the deadly Albino Ghoul spider
-  both the miniature  and giant varieties - has been used  by
adepts  through the years in rites of magic. The spider  farms
of the south produce perhaps a hundred pounds of the substance
year  and sell it to the merchants of magic, where it is  made
available to all who ply our trade. It is said that each  year
one worker dies the horrible death incurred by the bite of the
Albino  Ghoul  spider  to  ensure the  potency  of  the  silk,
although never has this deliberately been made to happen.

Blood Moss: is the bane of farmers and the boon of magicians. It
is a deep red fungus that attacks the crops of those who raise
grain,  yet it is a vital component in the casting of  spells.
An  oddity to those who spend their lives observing the growth
of  that which is not animal in nature -for it behaves like no
other  plant or mushroom - Blood Moss grows only in the driest
of  times,  when all around it is perishing from  drought.  It
cannot survive the absence of direct sunlight, and thus passes
from  the earth each night, only to return when the sun blazes
mercilessly  upon  the land. Blood Moss  seems  feed  only  in
ripening  grain - it can lay waste to an acre  of  corn  in  a
single  day and vanish without a trace as night falls, leaving
naught but fruitless stalks swaying in the cool, night breeze.
The  magic of Blood Moss is thought to reside in its  fleeting
nature,  for  it is used in the spells of movement  -from  the
simplest  levitation  to making the very  earth  tremble.   As
harvest  time comes each year, the merchants send  runners  to
wait  by  the  fields  and  gather the  Blood  Moss.   Farmers
consider  these  runners unlucky and try to  chase  them  from
their  fields,  but enough show persistence  to  ensure  their
masters a plentiful supply of Blood Moss to sell.

Black Pearl: The Black Pearl is the most highly prized of all the
pearls.  Well-formed ones command a price from  jewelers  that
would bankrupt a score of wizards.  Yet Black Pearls are vital
in  the  casting  of spells that are hurled  from  the  mage's
person and must travel to a final destination. Fortunately for
our  profession, even rarer than a normal Black Pearl  is  one
that is perfectly shaped.  Most are lopsided and lack symmetry
-  the  very  quality that makes the jeweler  desire  them  so
highly. This ensures a ready supply for the thaumaturge -  the
weaver  of  magic. It is said that, unlike the ordinary  pearl
which  is  formed  inside an oyster when it seeks  to  protect
itself  from  a  piece of sand or grit, the Black  Pearl  only
forms when the seed of the great pearl is yet another pearl of
much smaller size cast adrift by the death of another oyster.

Nightshade: Not to be confused with the rank-smelling plant of
the  same name, the Nightshade used in the mystic arts  is  an
extremely  rare  mushroom that is only found in  the  deepest,
most  remote forests. It is said to be quite venomous  to  the
touch  of  all save those present at its harvest, thus  it  is
never  sold  in  shops  and is among the scarcest  of  magical
reagents.   To obtain it, one must seek in the deepest  forest
on the blackest of nights when not even a moonbeam illuminates
a  single blade of grass.  I know not of the precise locations
where  this mystic fungus can be found, but there are  rumored
to  be  those in the lands of Britannia that know this secret.
Its  chief  magical properties are connected with the  use  of
poison and the creation of illusions so real that they can lay
the mightiest warrior to the ground. So rare is the Nightshade
that  it  is primarily used in the creation Of only  the  most
potent of magics.

Mandrake  Root:  The root of the poisonous Mandrake  plant  is
instantly  recognizable by its human  shape  and  its  crimson
color.  It is said that the sap runs blood-red when the  plant
is cut down in order to harvest the root.  Long prized for its
narcotic and purging effects when consumed in minute portions,
the  Mandrake Root is the most powerful known substance in the
weaving  of  magical spells that give new shape to very  world
around  us.   The variety of Mandrake Root used in the  mystic
arts  is  found  only in marshy terrain, where  the  root  can
thrust  deeply  into the earth. The more earth  that  must  be
moved  to  retrieve  the Mandrake Root, the  more  potent  its
effect  in the magic of the finder. Many years ago,  when  our
people  were but scattered tribes of nomads, the Mandrake  was
plentiful. As our people have tamed the land, however, and the
practice  of the mystic arts has become refined, the  Mandrake
has  all  but vanished from the face of the land we  now  call
Britannia.  It  is never seen in the shops of  the  towns  and
castles, and hardly even sold privately if found.  Many of our
profession  have devoted lifetimes to the search for  Mandrake
Root without ever coming into possession of a single piece  of
it.

     These  then  are the eight mystic reagents  used  in  the
weaving  of  enchantments.  Some are readily available,  while
others are costly or must be hunted and harvested by the  mage
that  intends  to  use them. Guard well your supply  of  these
magical  components for without them there can  be  no  magic.
Use  them wisely, as ye must use the forces that they unleash.
Remember  that  Magic  is to be used only  for  the  cause  of
righteousness and for the greater good.  Should  you  use  the
mystic  arts  for personal gain or vengeance, be prepared  for
the desertion of your powers.

Awaken:  Should  you  or  any of your  followers  ever  be  so
unfortunate  as  to come under the influence  of  a  magically
induced  slumber, the use of a Spell of Awakening  will  often
alleviate  the condition. It is a simple spell  which  may  be
cast  by the beginning student of the mystic arts with  little
effort or cost. It requires the use of Ginseng for its healing
qualities and Garlic in order to ward off the coming of  sleep
until  the  victims body has returned to its normal  cycle  of
wakefulness  and rest.  Blend the two reagents  carefully  and
apply  the mixture to the brow of your sleeping companion  and
chant "levate" loudly.

Blink: Many are the occasions that the thaumaturge needs to be
elsewhere in very short order and finds that neither horse nor
ship  nor  any  other  conventional  form  of  travel  is   of
sufficient  promptness for the situation.   Magical  means  of
travel must then be used, of which the Blink spell is the most
common.  This  spell disassembles the mage and companions  and
reassembles them at a spot many leagues distant in any  chosen
direction.   There are means of travel that cover far  greater
distances  than  the Blink, but they are far more  costly  and
have  other limitations which we shall examine later  in  this
tome.  The Blink can only move the party distances perceptible
to the mind of a common person.
     The  components needed for the casting of a  Blink  spell
are  Spider  Silk and Blood Moss.  The binding powers  of  the
Spider  Silk prevent the essence of the travelers  from  being
scattered  during transit, while the Blood Moss  aids  in  the
movement  from one location to the next.  Equal quantities  of
each  reagent  ensure the proper working of  the  enchantment.
The  concentration  required for Blinking  is  such  that  the
spellcaster will most certainly fell the effects, but  not  be
left exhausted.
     
Cure:  Venomous  creatures  abound  throughout  the  lands  of
Britannia.  Rarely are they evil, nature having provided  them
with  their  sting  as  a  means  of  defense  against  larger
predators, but without proper attention wounds can fester  and
lead  to  the death of a victim.  Furthermore, evil mages  may
cast  noxious, poisonous energy fields during battle or  erect
such  barriers  to  prevent the virtuous from  reaching  their
caches  or sanctuaries.  Fortunately, the great wizard  Jaanth
Nor  devised a countering magic for the effects of  all  venom
and  recorded his findings for future generations to use.  The
Cure  spell is effected by the use of a mixture of Garlic  and
Ginseng  and  the  calling  of the  victim's  name  to  soothe
envenomed  soul.   The curative powers of the Ginseng  nullify
the  effects of the poison in the victim's system,  while  the
use  of  Garlic wards off the return of any virulent  residues
that may lie dormant in the blood.

Dispel: One of the staples of the wizard's profession is the use
of  energy fields. We shall discuss the casting of such fields
shortly,  but  first let us examine the means  of  dismantling
them  when  they are encountered. Although there  are  various
forms  of  such  fields, they are all created with  a  similar
magic  and  thus  may be Dispelled with a  single  spell.  The
Dispel  enchantment  is one of moderate difficulty,  far  more
exhausting than the creation of energy fields. Often  touching
the  field  may prove disastrous, so the enchantment  must  be
cast from afar and thus required the use of the precious Black
Pearl   needed   in   all  projectile  spells.    Furthermore,
Sulphurous  Ash is needed to provide the flash of  power  that
beings  the  dissolution  of  the  forces  holding  the  field
together.  Finally,  the warding powers  of  Garlic  are  also
employed  to prevent the forces from reassembling at the  spot
where  they were previously concentrated. To effect the spell,
speak backwards the color of the type of field encountered.

Energy Field: There are four types of Energy Fields known to the
practitioner  of  the mystic arts: Sleep,  Poison,  Fire,  and
lightning.  Their effects are varied, but the  magic  used  to
erect them is the same in each instance. Any person attempting
to  pass  through an Energy Field will run the risk of  either
falling asleep or being poisoned in the case of the first  two
types; if the field is of Fire then their flesh shall burn  as
they  pass through and they shall feel much pain and  anguish;
while  the  field composed of  Lightning is impenetrable.  The
casting of Energy Fields is not difficult and requires only  a
small  exertion on the part of the spellcaster, but the fields
are  only  effective  in enclosed areas such  as  subterranean
passages and inside of rooms.  The reagents necessary  in  the
casting  of  these Energy Fields are Sulphurous  Ash  for  the
burst of creation, Spider Silk for the binding of forces to  a
single spot, and Black Pearl for the launching of the spell to
a  spot away from he who works the magic. It would be a  grave
error indeed to cast such a spell without the latter component
for you would find yourself in the midst of the field!

Fireball:  When beset upon by evil, the spellcaster  has  many
offensive tools at his or her disposal. We have discussed some
of  the  indirect magics such as Energy Fields, but there  are
times when more direct action is required. There is a class of
missile spells for such occasions, of which the Fireball spell
is  the intermediate one.  All such spells call for the use of
the  precious  Black Pearl for its power in the  launching  of
projectiles.  In the case of the Fireball, Sulphurous  Ash  is
also  called for in equal proportion, for its powers of  fire-
flash  are integral to the creation of flaming missiles. Speak
the  name  of your enemy when the spell is cast and  your  aim
shall  be  unerring and your enemy will be devastated  by  the
flames o f the magical fires.

Gate  Travel: In the repertoire of teleportation enchantments,
Gate  Travel is by far the most powerful. This is  because  it
not  only utilizes the reagents and chants of most magics, but
also the power of the gates of the moons that control the very
oceans   and  tides.  The  moongates  are  located  throughout
Britannia, and appear only at certain phases of the twin moons
Trammel  and  Felucca. To cast the spell of Gate  Travel,  one
must  speak the name of the moons as the reagents are stirred.
As  the  enchantment  takes effect, the  spellcaster  and  any
companions  will be instantly carried to the location  of  the
desired moongate.
     It   has   been  a  long-standing  tradition  among   the
practitioners of the mystic arts to zealously guard the secret
of  the  components of the Gate Travel spell. It is said  that
revealing these reagents will seal the use of the gates to the
one  who divulged the key. Of course, none have dared to speak
of  them  for  fear  of losing one of the  most  powerful  and
exhausting spells in the lore of enchantment.  This writer  is
no exception to this belief.

Heal: 0ne of the cornerstones of the good and true path of the
wizard is the use of enchantment for beneficial ends.  We have
discussed  the Cure spell which renders venom as  harmless  as
the  purest of well water, but the most common form of  injury
is  the  physical  wound rather than the  internal  disruption
brought  on  by poison.  Swords and talons do not discriminate
and  the  tools  of justice are oft used for unjust  purposes.
When you or your companions have suffered physical injury that
hath  rent  or seared the flesh, the Heal spell is invaluable.
Mix  similar quantities of the healing essence of Ginseng with
integrating strength of Spider Silk and apply it to the wound.
Speak  the  name of the victim and the flesh will be  hastened
along the road to wholeness.

Iceball: Once again, the invaluable Black Pearl is the key to the
casting  of  the missile spells, of which the Iceball  is  the
second   most  potent  in  the  mage's  arsenal.  Unlike   the
previously discussed Fireball spell, the Iceball requires only
the  use of Mandrake Root in conjunction with the Black Pearl.
The  necromantic Mandrake will bring the chill  of  the  grave
upon  your enemy and the very blood of the victim will  freeze
as  if it were midwinter. Ice is heavy and the toll of casting
this  spell is equally weighty.  All but the sturdiest of  our
profession will needs take rest after casting but  a  pair  of
these potent enchantments.  Remember to speak the name of your
intended  victim  as you cast the reagents  aloft,  lest  your
efforts be for naught.

Jinx: There are but two enchantments more powerful and difficult
than  the  Jinx  spell, and but one of similar potency.   When
faced  with  a  closely packed horde of enemies, mix  together
equal  quantities  of Black Pearl, deadly Nightshade, and  the
crimson  Mandrake  Root to cast at your  opponents.   Call  to
their attention the vulnerability of their backs and weave the
magic.   They shall turn and smite each other as if  each  was
alone  in a crowd of mortal foes. The Black Pearl shall  carry
your  spell to their very midst, while the hallucinatory might
of  the Nightshade will confound them beyond the boundaries of
common sense.  Mandrake Root lends the power of conviction  to
their  misconceptions.   The duration of  the  enchantment  is
varied,  but  throughout its course the  spellcaster  will  be
reminded of its potency by the presence of a glowing  "J".  Be
warned,  however, that the casting of the Jinx spell  requires
great exertion.

Kill:  The  Kill  spell is the most powerful  of  the  missile
enchantments. It is the favorite of evil wizards and  its  use
is   prohibited   by  most  teachers  of  the   mystic   arts.
Nevertheless, when faced with a foe of singular strength and a
truly evil nature, the wise magician will prepare a mixture of
the  highly  toxic Nightshade and mercurial  Black  Pearl  and
speak  the  True-name of the enemy while casting the  reagents
toward the foe.  As the last syllable of the chant fades,  all
of  the target's vital organs shall cease to function for  the
space  of  seven heartbeats.  This is usually fatal,  although
some  beings of exceptionally  hardy constitution will survive
a  single  Kill  spell. The enchantment may be  woven  several
times, but tales a fierce toll on the energy and concentration
of  the  caster.  It is easier to Dispel a  field  of  vibrant
energy than it is to stop the functioning of a living being.

Light: The enchantment of Light is a trivial one, often the very
first spell acquired by the budding sorcerer. It requires  but
a  pinch of Sulphurous Ash, which is applied to the end  of  a
staff  and  gently blown upon until it begins to glow  with  a
soft yellow light. The spellcaster must concentrate briefly on
the image of a candle and expend a slight amount of energy  to
start the magical glow. From then on it will burn softly until
the  reagent  is  consumed, lighting the underground  passages
where   the   thaumaturge  treads.  There  are  two  principal
advantages  to  the use of Light spells in place  of  ordinary
torches.  They  are  unaffected by all but  magical  winds  or
breezes; and they do not smoke and cause one's eyes to  smart.
Many  a warrior has suffered grievously because his eyes  were
shut by the sting of a wealth of tears.

Magic Missile: There are generally very few if any spells that
are  learned early in the practice of wizardry which are  both
useful  and  eagerly  sought after by those  dabbling  in  the
mystic  arts.  The beginning thaumaturge almost always  yearns
for  spells  that devastate or create startling  effects.  The
weaving   of   weather  or  the  mastery  of  short   vertical
teleportations do not impress onlookers.  The one simple spell
that  does  truly  inspire  awe  at  little  expense  to   the
spellcaster is the Magic Missile. It requires the use  of  two
parts  of  Sulphurous Ash to one part of Black  Pearl  in  the
casting, and it will cause a tremendous bright flash  of  blue
light to strike an enemy.  While not visibly marked, the enemy
will  sustain a fair amount of internal damage,  said  by  the
cynical to be brought about by fright more than by power.  The
Magic  Missile is a useful enchantment in battle,  but  it  is
more  spectacular  than  effective and  will  not  deter  most
enemies larger than the spellcaster who wields it.

Negate:  When faced with a greater or more telling magic  than
one's  own, the practitioner of the mystic arts may decide  it
best for all involved to suspend everyone's use of thaumaturgy
for a short time. At this time one should invoke the powers of
the   Negate   spell  by  mixing  Garlic  with   its   warding
characteristics  together with the exotic Mandrake  ripe  with
mystic  potency.  To  this blend add but an  equal  amount  of
Sulphurous  Ash to provide the spark of fusion and speak  your
own  name backwards. All magic shall instantly cease save  the
enchantment  of  Negation itself, which is manifested  by  the
vision  of a glowing "N" hovering before your eyes. he  Negate
spell  will last only a brief time, which should be  used  for
either  the annihilation of your enemies or for the  judicious
removal of your presence from the troubled spot.

Open: There was once a time when all beings were fair and just.
The  principal vessel used for the transport of one's  worldly
possessions  in  these times was the wooden  chest,  which  is
still  the  popular means.  But since the coming of  the  evil
ones  and  their lasting influence on the inhabitants  of  our
fair  land,  the practice of placing obnoxious  and  sometimes
lethal  traps  on  the  locks  of  chests  has  become   quite
commonplace.  Virtually all folk use such  devices,  even  the
denizens  of  the underworld who guard naught  but  ill-gotten
wealth.   To  bypass these sinister mechanisms the thaumaturge
need  but utter the chant "Appar Unem" and sprinkle a  mix  of
Sulphurous Ash and Blood Moss on the offending lock. The flash
of  the  Sulphurous Ash powers the movement potential  of  the
Blood  Moss and the lock will open itself safely, leaving  the
contents of the chest at the disposal of the spellcaster.

Protection: There are times during the heat of battle when one
finds  the  best  form  of offense to be  naught  but  a  good
defense.  When  hard-pressed by fierce antagonists,  the  wise
magician  will  mix  together  the  reagents  Sulphurous  Ash,
Ginseng,  and  Garlic and invoke the spell of Protection.  The
wholesome  qualities  of  the  Ginseng,  together   with   the
repellent  strength of the Garlic, serve to shield the  wizard
and  all companions from the onslaught of their enemies.  Such
Protection  is not always effective, but may be of great  use.
Sulphurous  Ash  provides  the  mystic  fire  that  fuels  the
incantation,  and also serves to startle one's opponents  with
an  initial  flash as the spell begins to function. Protection
is  not  a  simple  spell, but neither is it an  exceptionally
strenuous spell to cast. Its duration is short, and during the
course  of  its  shielding the mage will be  reminded  of  its
effects by a glowing "P" hovering before his or her eyes.

Quickness:  The  spell  of  Quickness  is  one  of  the   most
unpredictable  yet potent spells in the wizards collection  of
enchantments,  and  one  of the most telling  on  his  or  her
companions.  When cast during battle, the Quickness spell will
heighten  the  natural dexterity of one's fellows  to  such  a
degree  that they will move with twice their normal agility  -
at  times  they  will be able to land two blows against  their
foes  instead  of the customary single strike during  a  round
combat.   The  price is age, for the recipients of  the  extra
speed  incurred by the use of Quickness will age briefly while
under  the  sway  of  the enchantment.yet most  feel  that  an
occasional  gray  hair is but a small price  to  pay  for  the
advantage of dealing twice the number of blows that one  might
receive.  The  reagents  for  the Quickness  spell  are  fiery
Sulphurous Ash, Ginseng, and volatile Blood Moss.   The  Blood
Moss  portion  is  double  the others,  for  movement  is  the
critical  aspect of the spell. The Sulphurous  Ash  lends  the
flashes  of  energy  needed  by  the  beneficiaries   of   the
enchantment, while the healing powers of Ginseng prevent  them
from  aging so rapidly as to become gray-beards after a single
encounter.  Throughout the course of the Quickness spell,  the
spellcaster will be reminded of its effects by the vision of a
bright, glowing "Q".

Resurrect: Many are the monsters and terrors that dwell beneath
the  surface or in the forests and marshes of Britannia.  Even
groups  of  most  valiant and fierce warriors are  subject  to
losses  too  tragic to bear. If a companion  is  slain  by  an
enemy,   all  is  not  lost  in  the  presence  of  the   most
accomplished of mages. There exists the means to bring back  a
companion  from the land of the dead - not as an unholy  once-
dead being - but as a living, breathing creature of flesh  and
blood  restored  to  life,  albeit in  an  extremely  weakened
condition. Each wizard must needs determine the components  of
this enchantment that work best u4th their own magic, for  the
combination is said to be unique to each spellcaster. What  is
known  about  weaving this the most potent of all enchantments
is that it requires the spellcaster to scatter the reagents to
cover  the  victim's body, white calling out the name  of  the
slain  companion  in  a  voice  of  thunder.  This  magic   is
extraordinarily taxing, and rare is the mage who can  continue
to  weave  spells without rest once this enchantment has  been
successful cast.

Sleep: There are moments in the lives of every practitioner of
the  mystic arts where discretion is truly the better part  of
valor.   Not  all  foes  are  truly  evil  and  deserving   of
annihilation  -  verily,  some are but  beasts  of  the  field
seeking provender and are entitled to life as much as  you  or
I.  Yet,  unchecked these creatures pose as great a threat  to
one  as a score of rabid orcs.  It is in such situations  that
the  wise  thaumaturge  weaves a Sleep spell  and  leaves  his
opposition  in  deep  slumber  whilst  vacating  the   current
location.  The Sleep spell is truly a serious enchantment that
requires a fair amount of mental energy to cast, but it is not
of  such  import  as  to leave the Spellcaster  breathless  or
exhausted. To send your foes to land of slumber, mix a  double
portion of Spider Silk with some Ginseng and chant "Duerme" as
you sprinkle the reagents into the air.  Fear not the distance
between you and the intended victims, for the binding power of
the Spider Silk  will enfold them from afar, while the healing
Ginseng will gently wrap them in deep sleep.

Tremor:  The  Tremor spell is a very potent magic indeed.  Few
spells  are  as exhausting and none save Resurrection  have  a
more striking or dramatic effect. Carefully blend portions  of
Sulphurous Ash with Blood Moss and Mandrake Root and  cast  it
at  the  feet of your opponents whilst shouting as  loudly  as
possible. The volatile Sulphurous Ash shall furnish the  flash
of  power to the movement potential of the Blood Moss and  the
Mandrake  Root will lend raw necromantic force to  the  spell.
The very earth will tremble and quake beneath the feet of your
enemies  and  they  will fly in terror, save  those  that  are
swallowed up entirely by the very ground itself. No  spell  in
the  lore of the mystic arts has as much power to strike  fear
into  the  hearts  and minds of those that suffer  its  mighty
impact.  But use this enchantment wisely for it will leave you
as weak as a newborn babe.

Undead: Ever since the coming of the evil  wizard Mondain and his
hellish  offspring,, the lands of Britannia have been  plagued
by  the  return  of creatures already slain.  These  once-dead
beings  take  many forms, the most common being  the  animated
skeletons of orcs and goblins, or the ghoulish forms of flesh-
eating corpses that have been summoned from the land of shades
to  wreak havoc on the living. These apparitions are cowed  by
the  light of righteousness and fight as warriors in a trance.
Nonetheless,  they are hard to kill and never tire  in  battle
and  thus  may jeopardize even a seasoned band of adventurers.
Each mage knows a form of turning them aside when encountered,
but  the components of such magics are personal and depend  on
the spellcaster. You must use your knowledge of the properties
of  magical reagents to determine which two will lend force to
your  enchantment of Undead turning. When you have  found  the
proper  mixture, cast it at your foes while chanting the  name
of  what  the creatures once were when they trod the earth  in
life.

View: The lands that we now call Britannia in honor of the wise
and  just influence of Lord British are vast in scope and hold
many  uncharted regions. Although cartographers have  traveled
all  the  circumference of the main continent,  many  internal
tracts  have  yet to be accurately recorded, while  there  are
numerous islands rumored to exist to the southeast with nary a
chart  to  show their location. Here the practitioner  of  the
mystic  arts  has  a  great advantage  over  the  wanderer  or
seafarer  in  that the View spell may be woven when  the  need
arises.  The  View incantation is of middling  difficulty  and
involves  the  use  of hallucinatory Nightshade  and  powerful
Mandrake  Root. Mandrake lends power to the enchantment  while
Nightshade  provides a mystic overview of all the land  within
the  range of a simple Blink spell. Simply blend the  reagents
and speak out the name of the region through which you travel.

Wind Change: Not all Britannia is accessible on foot, and  oft
times  the wizard will find the need to embark on a sea voyage
to  reach  some certain destinations in the pursuit of  Truth.
Once  aboard ship, most voyagers find themselves at the  mercy
of capricious nature with her ever-changing winds. This is not
true  for  the  practitioner of the mystic arts, however,  for
through  magical means one may control the very  direction  of
the wind, albeit for but a short span of time. Wind Change  is
not a taxing enchantment; indeed a powerful wizard can cast it
almost  continuously, although it is not so trivial as opening
trapped  chests  or effecting minor teleportations.Simply  mix
Sulphurous ash for power and Blood Moss for movement  to  coax
the  wind to a more favorable direction. Speak the name of the
patron  of  winds and call out the direction desired  and  the
winds shall change at your bidding.
Xit: When trapped in the bowels of the earth, weary and battered
with  a  long  road to the surface, the use of an  Xit  (exit)
spell  can be beneficial. This enchantment is but one  of  the
middling  forms of teleportation, quite similar  in  cost  and
nature  to the Blink spell. It too disassembles the party  and
reassembles it on the surface of Britannia, and thus  requires
very   similar   components   to  the   aforementioned   Blink
enchantment. Aside from the moving Blood Moss and the  binding
Spider   Silk   which  ensures  the  safe   passage   of   the
disincorporated party, Xit requires the use of Sulphurous  Ash
to  provide the flare that guides the party from the depths of
darkness to the world of sunlight. When casting the Xit spell,
the thaumaturge should try to envision the actual entrance  to
the  underworld used to gain the subterranean passages at  the
beginning  of the expedition below ground. Successful  casting
of  the  Xit  spell will surely return them to  that  selfsame
spot.

Y(UP): The two most elementary forms of teleportation both have
strange names and may be used only when underground. The  more
difficult  of the two is known by the letter "Y" in  honor  of
the  mage  Yenthak  Gnor, who first crafted  the  enchantment.
Yenthak Gnor discovered that a blend of Blood Moss and  Spider
Silk  in conjunction with the spoken names of the moons  would
cause  one who utters it to be lifted upward through the  very
soil  to the next highest level of a dungeon. The Spider  Silk
holds the party together during their transit, while the Blood
Moss moves them ever closer to the moons.

Z (DOWN): The "Z" or Down spell is perhaps the simplest of all
the teleportation spells.  It requires the same components  as
the  "Y" or Up spell - these being Blood Moss for movement and
Spider Silk for its binding qualities - but requires half  the
mental energy and concentration on the part of the spellcaster
due  to  the natural tendency of all bodies to move  downward.
The  origin of the name is uncertain, but it is believed  that
the letter "Z" is the first letter of the unpronounceable True-
name of the Lord of the Underworld, a demon of much power.  To
effect  the  spell, the spellcaster must scatter the  reagents
and  chant  "Baja" in stentorian tones. The lower the tonality
of  the  chant, the higher the probability of the party moving
down one level of a dungeon.
